[CN 933] Initial version of Jet Job Snapshot tutorial (#1)
hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet-job-snapshot: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet-job-snapshot.adoc

Make sure you have the following:

* Running https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] cluster
* Kubernetes command-line tool, https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[kubectl]
* Maven command-line tool, https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[mvn]
* Deployed xref:operator:ROOT:index.adoc[Hazelcast Platform Operator version 5.8 or above]
* Blob storage and access credentials on one of the following cloud providers: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[AWS], https://cloud.google.com/storage/[GCP], https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/[Azure]

If you're unsure about how to submit JetJobs using the Hazelcast Platform Operator, it's recommended to start by following the xref:tutorials:ROOT:hazelcast-platform-operator-jet.adoc[Data Pipeline] tutorial first. That tutorial also covers the steps for deploying a custom Jet pipeline JAR to Cloud storage and provides guidance on managing JetJob resources using the Hazelcast Platform Operator.

== Step 1. Start the Hazelcast Cluster

Since Snapshot is an exclusive feature of the enterprise version, you'll need to set up an Enterprise Hazelcast cluster. This is why it's necessary to create a License Key secret first.

> . Execute the following command to create a Hazelcast License Key secret, which will be referenced in the Hazelcast resource definition later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to create a secret with your link:http://trialrequest.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast Enterprise License], which will be referenced in the Hazelcast resource definition later:
```

+
[source, shell]
----

> kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-literal=license-key=<LICENSE-KEY>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create secret generic hazelcast-license-key --from-literal=license-key=<hz-license-key>
```
In other tutorials we use this command, so it's nice to keep them consistent

----
+

. Run the following command to create a Hazelcast cluster with the Jet engine configured:

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: Hazelcast
metadata:
  name: hazelcast
spec:
  clusterSize: 1
  repository: 'docker.io/hazelcast/hazelcast-enterprise'
  version: '5.3.0'

>   licenseKeySecretName: <LICENSE-KEY-SECRET-NAME>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  licenseKeySecretName: hazelcast-license-key
```
Also how about using `include` as Dominik([sample](https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-tls/blob/master/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/hazelcast-platform-operator-tls.adoc?plain=1#L60-L67)) did instead of hardcoded configs.

Author: would be good 👍

$ kubectl get hazelcast hazelcast
NAME        STATUS    MEMBERS   EXTERNAL-ADDRESSES   WAN-ADDRESSES
hazelcast   Running   1/1
----

== Step 2. Run the Data Pipeline

In the tutorial, we will walk through a practical example involving a 'transaction' map designed to store crucial transaction data. Our Hazelcast Jet setup will seamlessly retrieve these transactions from the map and process them. Firstly, we will submit a data pipeline that processes transactions from the 'transaction' map. To maintain simplicity in the example, the pipeline will only log the transactions. Then we will explore the process of saving the state of the data pipeline using the Hazelcast Platform Operator.

Before submitting the Data Pipelines, you need to create a map from which the Data Pipeline will fetch the records. To utilize the map as a data source for a Data Pipeline, it's necessary to enable the Event Journal in the map.

. Execute the following command to create the Map, which will serve as the source for the Data Pipeline

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: Map
metadata:
  name: transaction
spec:
  hazelcastResourceName: hazelcast

>   name: transaction

Reviewer: I think we don't need the `name` field in the `spec`. We are not using it in samples or other tutorials.
If you remove the `spec.name` field from here, could you also remove them from sample yamls.

[source, java]
----
public static void main(String[] args) {
    var p = Pipeline.create();
    var transactionSource = Sources.mapJournal("transaction", JournalInitialPosition.START_FROM_OLDEST);
    var loggerSink = Sinks.logger();
    p.readFrom(transactionSource)
            .withIngestionTimestamps()
            .setName("Emit Transactions")
            .map(e -> {
                System.out.printf("The transaction '%s' is being executed in 'job-v1'\n", e.getKey());
                // execute the transaction
                return String.format("[Job V1] transaction:'%s' payload:'%s'", e.getKey(), e.getValue());
            })
            .setName("Apply Transactions")
            .writeTo(loggerSink)
            .setName("Log Transactions");

    HazelcastInstance hz = Hazelcast.bootstrappedInstance();
    hz.getJet().newJob(p);
}
----

> . Execute the following command to submit the Data Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to submit the Data Pipeline.
```

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: JetJob
metadata:
  name: job-transaction-v1
spec:

>   name: transaction-v1

Reviewer: Again, why did you use `spec.name` field?

{"time":"2023-08-09T12:24:59,753", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[10.36.0.10]:5702 [dev] [5.3.0] [transaction-v1/Log Transactions#0] [Job V1] transaction:'transaction-1' payload:'{\"description\": \"Online Purchase\", \"amount\": 75.99, \"transactionDate\": \"2023-08-09T15:30:00Z\"}' "}
The transaction 'transaction-2' is being executed in 'job-v1'
{"time":"2023-08-09T12:33:32,784", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[10.36.0.10]:5702 [dev] [5.3.0] [transaction-v1/Log Transactions#0] [Job V1] transaction:'transaction-2' payload:'{\"description\": \"Grocery Shopping\", \"amount\": 42.75, \"transactionDate\": \"2023-08-10T10:15:00Z\"}' "}
The transaction 'transaction-3' is being executed in 'job-v1'
{"time":"2023-08-09T12:33:44,997", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[10.36.0.10]:5702 [dev] [5.3.0] [transaction-v1/Log Transactions#0] [Job V1] transaction:'transaction-3' payload:'{\"description\": \"Restaurant Dinner\", \"amount\": 120.50, \"transactionDate\": \"2023-08-11T20:00:00Z\"}' "}
----

> == Step 3. Saving the state of Data Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 3. Save the state of the Data Pipeline
```

In data pipelines, saving and using computation process states is vital for accurate and reliable data processing. Jet's Snapshot feature lets you save and restore these processing states. A snapshot captures the state of a running Jet job at a specific time, giving you a reliable record of ongoing computations and processed data.

. Run the following command to export a Snapshot from the Data Pipeline.

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: JetJobSnapshot
metadata:
  name: snapshot-transaction
spec:
  name: transaction
  jetJobResourceName: job-transaction-v1
  cancelJob: true
EOF
----

> . Use the following command to check the status of the exported JetJobSnapshot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to check the status of the exported JetJobSnapshot:
```

Continuing with the example, we will now move forward to create a new version of the previous data pipeline. To maintain simplicity in the example, the new version so similar to the old one. It takes entries from the 'transaction' map and logs them.

[source, java]
----
public static void main(String[] args) {
    var p = Pipeline.create();
    var transactionSource = Sources.mapJournal("transaction", JournalInitialPosition.START_FROM_OLDEST);
    var loggerSink = Sinks.logger();
    p.readFrom(transactionSource)
            .withIngestionTimestamps()
            .setName("Emit Transactions")
            .map(e -> {
                System.out.printf("The transaction '%s' is being executed in 'job-v2'\n", e.getKey());
                // execute the transaction
                return String.format("[Job V2] transaction:'%s' payload:'%s'", e.getKey(), e.getValue());
            })
            .setName("Apply Transactions")
            .writeTo(loggerSink)
            .setName("Log Transactions");

    HazelcastInstance hz = Hazelcast.bootstrappedInstance();
    hz.getJet().newJob(p);

> }

Reviewer: WDYT about using [Dominik's approach](https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-tls/blob/master/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/hazelcast-platform-operator-tls.adoc?plain=1#L120-L127) where we use `include` functionality instead of putting the code samples hardcoded?

Author: It makes the doc well-structured 👍

----

. Differing from the previous JetJob definition, we will set the 'initialSnapshotResourceName' field to refer to the Snapshot exported in the preceding step. Execute the following command to submit the new Data Pipeline.

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: JetJob
metadata:
  name: job-transaction-v2
spec:
  name: transaction-v2
  hazelcastResourceName: hazelcast
  state: Running
  jarName: jet-pipelines-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
  mainClass: org.examples.jet.snapshot.JobV2
  initialSnapshotResourceName: snapshot-transaction
  bucketConfig:
    bucketURI: '<BUCKET-URI>'
    secretName: '<SECRET-NAME>'
EOF
----

This data pipeline, named 'job-transaction-v2', will seamlessly resume processing entries from the state at which we exported the snapshot. In this way, we achieve to process each transaction entries only once within the pipeline.

> . You can check the status of the new Data Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Now check the new Jet job status
```

The transaction 'transaction-5' is being executed in 'job-v2'
{"time":"2023-08-09T12:47:53,791", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[10.36.0.10]:5702 [dev] [5.3.0] [transaction-v2/Log Transactions#0] [Job V2] transaction:'transaction-5' payload:'{\"description\": \"Gasoline Refill\", \"amount\": 50.30, \"transactionDate\": \"2023-08-13T09:00:00Z\"}' "}
----

If the new version of the Data Pipeline, named 'job-transaction-v2', is not initialized from the exported Snapshot 'snapshot-transaction', it will begin data processing from the start of the map. This is undesirable, as we have already processed certain transaction entries in the previous version of the pipeline.

NOTE: If want to make your Snapshots to be persistent against outages or restarts, it would be enough to create a Hazelcast cluster with persistence enabled.

> == Summary

Reviewer: Before the summary section, we should have the clean up step as the final step. Here is a [sample](https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet/blob/master/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet.adoc?plain=1#L321-L329)
